---
slug: how-to-design-a-home-in-londons-changing-climate
title: "How to design a home in London's changing climate?"
date: 2025-08-12
author: "Simon Welch"
hero_image: images/journal/Modern-Detached-Coffey-Architects-300x227.png
images:
  - images/journal/Modern-Detached-Coffey-Architects-300x227.png
source_url: https://www.coffeyresidential.com/blog/how-to-design-a-home-in-londons-changing-climate
---

London has one of the most unique climates in the world. There are a number of factors at work, including the location, urban heat island, and climate change. It can make it tricky to design a home that is comfortable all year round without relying on energy intensive heating and cooling systems. [We can help though](https://www.coffeyresidential.com/portfolio-coffey-residential), working with clients to create outstanding residential architecture.

#### Tradition

If you look at the official classification of climates, the UK has a temperate oceanic climate. Generally, it means cool winters and mild summers. The distribution of rain is quite even throughout the year. That is why it seems Brits are always complaining about the weather.

Traditionally, London did have a similar type of climate as the rest of the UK. However, over time there have been some changes. Generally, the south of England now tends to be warmer than other regions. It gets more warm weather from continental air masses and fewer cold polar air masses.

London also has a problem with an urban heat island. The city typically has temperatures that are several degrees higher than the neighbouring areas. It happens because of the amount of heat generated by all the human activity. Plus, the size of the city and abundance of materials that absorb and retain heat are massive contributing factors.

#### Climate change

Today, the UK is facing even greater challenges because of climate change. Weather extremes are becoming more and more frequent, such as scorching heatwaves and heavy rainstorms. It puts a lot of pressure on homes in particular. It is important to think about this if you are looking at residential architecture. You can't design with the traditional climate in mind; you need to look at today and what it is potentially going to be like in the coming decades.

One of the most important things to think about is the type of roofing. Traditionally, the main aim when designing roofs in London was to ensure they could deal with the amount of rainfall and the rare cases of snow. It is now important to plan for even more wet weather, including torrential rain. The goal is to ensure the roofing and drainage will be able to handle it, reducing the risk of leaks and flooding.

Heat is also a major problem to address today. Again you need to think carefully about the roofing. Hotter countries tend to design roofs to ensure they minimise heat absorption. At the same time, they work to reflect more heat back. This combination of factors keeps the homes cooler.

The most important thing to keep in mind is good architecture ensures homes work with the environment. Consider all of the various things that could help, including choosing orientation to allow natural cooling. Be very selective with the materials too.
