---
slug: make-sure-you-choose-an-architect-that-understands-your-project-needs
title: "Make sure you choose an architect that understands your project needs"
date: 2014-07-11
hero_image: images/journal/SocialMediaLogoTwitter.png
images:
  - images/journal/SocialMediaLogoTwitter.png
source_url: https://www.coffeyresidential.com/blog/make-sure-you-choose-an-architect-that-understands-your-project-needs
---

When you come to select an architect to undertake your dream project it is imperative you choose a firm that is in possession of necessary and crucial accreditation. The inevitable result of selecting an architectural firm that complies with strict criteria is that you guarantee your project will benefit from an incontrovertible mark of quality. Coffey Architects are a RIBA Chartered Practice and with that you can always expect an exquisitely outstanding level of service and design. The scheme was structured following important government and client feedback. It simply offers you a professional promise that work will be of the highest standard and appropriate insurance, employment and health and safety policies are all in place. Furthermore it indicates the presence of continual professional development and a written environmental management policy. It is an indelible truth that the UK boasts some of the finest architects and our innovative founder Phil Coffey has spent years indulging his intense passion for creation and complimenting specific locations with the appropriate architectural structures. He maintains a strong belief in the power of empathic connections between architecture and the areas we live, work and play in on a daily basis. We all know how it feels to have a strong reaction to a sound or a sight. Music can move us to tears, along with literature and visual content. A deep internal reaction to something our eyes peruse such as a painting or portrait is very natural and the reaction cannot be forced. The same thing happens when we stand in the presence of truly incredible creation of the architectural nature. There is an universal recognition among us that the creative process is one that demands respect and our process is based on respect for your visions, surroundings and the unswerving motivation to make sure a location and property lives up to its full potential and to deliver the finest service to our clients. We love to help you realise your dreams for your home and with our experience and skills regarding the acquisition of planning permission and our all-encompassing service we are the choice for all residential architecture. The true beauty of architecture is that diversity can be so easily embraced. So many different clients have their own ideas and we are now seeing more and more people demanding the extravagant and courageous. Our work includes converting confused internal layouts, creating folded architectural promenades, constructing sky houses that benefit from solar gain, extensions that provide connections to gardens and many many more. Your personal visions regarding residential architecture are the projects we passionately undertake. With commitment to providing an unrivalled professional service, a respectful regard for the tone of your environment and endless creative motivation we pledge to help you create the homes you see in your dreams.

[

](https://www.coffeyresidential.com/blog?author=67ab22a1669e3278200f8fbd)
